Perú: hojas de balance de empresas pequeñas y medianas parace estar deteriorandose(The NPL ratio for medium-sized firms almost doubled, to
5.2 percent, from 2012 to 2015. In the same period, the NPL ratio for small enterprises rose from
5.8 to 8.4 percent.) aunque las de los hogares continuan en buen estado

imf colmbia cnsultation 2016:
  Household debt is also modest
at 20.5 percent of GDP and 31.8 percent of disposable income. Debt-service capacity seems ample
with debt payments representing about 9½ percent of disposable income. Banks’ remain sound,
with robust asset quality and profitability indicators (Table 7)


imf colmbia consultatio 2015:
 At 17.5 percent of GDP and 28 percent of disposable income, household debt is
moderate, and debt service-to-disposable income is low (9 percent).1
 Although slightly higher than a year
ago, LTVs remain low (52 percent)

imf mexico consultation 2015:
Mortgage and consumer loans amount to 10 and 5 percent of
GDP respectively, and are denominated in local currency. Households hold significant positive net
financial assets (in addition to non-financial assets). House prices have been broadly stable in real
terms since 2008, and there are no signs of a real estate bubble.
Corporate debt is also relatively low, although leverage has increased in recent years. Gross
corporate debt was around 32 percent of GDP in 2014, of which about 40 percent is in foreign
currency (a third of total corporate debt is owed by the public-owned PEMEX and CFE, so private
corporate debt is only about 20 percent of
GDP)


imf mexico consultation 2016:
Corporate debt is also relatively low, although about half of it is denominated in foreign currency.
Total corporate debt (including that of public corporations) is 35 percent of GDP, lower than in most other 
emerging economies (Figure 7). While FX debt is high, comprising half of total debt, most large corporations
reduce their exchange rate risks through a combination of natural hedges (sales in foreign currency) and
financial derivatives.
Households have low debt and significant positive net assets. The ratio of household debt to income is
only 22 percent, and households hold large financial and non-financial assets. Lending to households’
accounts for 37 percent of total bank loans (of which 60 percent are personal loans and credit cards and the
rest are housing loans). Consumer loan provisioning is high at 200 percent of NPLs. Household borrowing is
denominated entirely in local currency. House prices have increased broadly in line with income growth on
average over the last five years, and there is no evidence of an overvaluation. 


Brazil imf 2016 consultation
 Household debt-to-disposable
income has fallen over the course of 2016
reflecting both demand and supply factors; the
share of mortgage debt has increased to one
third, but underwriting standards, including
mortgage LTVs, have tightened. The household
debt service-to-income ratio has been broadly
stable at 22 percent for more than a year, with
rising interest costs largely offsetting lower
principal payments as a share of income. 
BTI 2006 es 21% y en 2016 es 42%
A sharper recovery is difficult because of the excess leverage and slack among firms,
and weakened income and balance sheets of households. 

Brazil 2015:
Household and corporate leverage have increased in recent years, to a large degree as a result
of increased borrowing from banks. The rising proportion of mortgages in household borrowing
has lengthened average maturities, containing the growth in debt service. Corporate bond
issuance has become increasingly important, including overseas borrowing, raising FX exposure
but also allowing firms to access credit at longer maturities and lower rates. Leverage–already
high by international standards–has edged up without translating into higher capital outlays as
firms built cash cushions instead of augmenting their capital stock. In the case of commodity
exporters, the decline in commodities is also contributing to raising leveraging by reducing free
cashflow and equity growth. While FX debt accounts for about 30 percent of the total, it is
largely hedged.6
Against this backdrop, tepid growth, possibly rising unemployment, exchange rate depreciation
and tighter financial conditions ahead will likely put strains on private sector balance sheets.
Indeed, there are emerging signs of balance sheet pressures. While the overall NPL ratio remains
stable at about 3 percent, weak activity has already caused an uptick in NPL ratios for some
segments of consumer and corporate loans, such as overdraft, credit card, working capital, and
SME loans, particularly by public banks (Appendix II). These segments have, however, been the
ones leading the recent deceleration in credit growth in public banks.








